CLIs(command-line interface) have existed since ages. 

We can find their roots in the first instance of CLI 
built for “interfacing with computers over teletype machines in the 1950s.” 

It allows a user to interact with the system, 
taking character-based command inputs from the keyboard or a script. 

However, CLI is just an interface, 
the main task is done by a program called command language interpreter.

In the past, 
we compiled the list of commands for the CMD command-line interpreter in Microsoft Windows, 
you can take a look at it below:

【Also Read: The Ultimate A to Z List Of Windows CMD Commands You Need To Know】

It’s a known fact that the command line interface (CLI), 
also known as the shell, 
is an integral【必须的】 part of the digital lives of various Linux users 
even when the graphical desktop environments on Linux systems have become quite user-friendly.

The first piece of text you see when you land on the shell is called prompt【提示】. 
It signifies system’s readiness to execute commands. 
The shell is accessed using the Terminal 
– a hardware device used to input data into, and displaying device from. 
However, the terminal application you see on your Linux systems is an emulator【仿真程序】 
that replicates【再生】 the jobs of a real-world terminal.

Many people often confuse the terms shell and terminal. 
Take the example of a car; 
the body of the car is the terminal and 
the dashboard【仪表盘】 can be considered as the shell 
where you perform various operations like acceleration【加速】, reverse【倒退】, shifting【漂移】, etc. 
The car responds to your actions performed using the dashboard. 
Similarly, the terminal displays responses for the commands executed using the shell or CLI.

☆ 

Is Linux CLI case-sensitive【大小写敏感】?
The answer is, yes. 
If you try to run LS instead of ls, 
it would display an error. 
There are some advantages of using a case-sensitive command line. 
The computers that existed in earlier decades weren’t fast enough, 
it was favorable【赞同】 to compare identical【完全相同】 strings instead of normalizing【正常化】 the upper and lower cases. 
This continued and became a habit, 
even though today’s machines are way faster and efficient. 
It also gives people the flexibility【灵活性】 over the choice of the command name.

☆ 

A-Z List of Linux Commands

So, In this post, 
I have tried to compile【编制】 a list of commands used in various Linux distributions. 
This has been possible with inputs from 【Ubuntu manual-ubuntu手册】, SS64【https://ss64.com/】, and Linux Dev Center. 
As you might be knowing, 
some or many of these commands may not work on your distribution. 
Running those commands may require you to install additional packages or 
it’s just that the commands aren’t meant to work on your system.

The descriptions of these Linux commands are based on their manual pages. 
To access the man page:
man command_name

For eg: man cat
If you find any discrepancy【不符合】, 
please feel free to contact for any correction.

[sheet]

So, this was the compilation【编辑】 of different Linux commands. 
I hope this A-Z Linux commands might help you in some way. 
I’ve spent weeks curating【助理牧师】 these Linux commands from various sources and testing them. 
If you find some command missing or some discrepency, 
please give your valuable feedback【反馈】 and 
help me make the overall【全面】 list better. 
I’ll be looking forward to it.